A man is being arrested by police near the Natural History Museum, in London. Photo: Reuters

LONDON - Police arrested a man near London's Natural History Museum on Saturday after his vehicle mounted the pavement and ploughed into pedestrians, injuring himself and 10 others in an apparent road traffic collision unrelated to terrorism.

Witnesses and footage posted on social media suggested the man was pinned down on the ground by passers-by in the busy tourist spot.

"The incident is a road traffic investigation and not a terrorist-related incident," London's Metropolitan Police said in a statement.

"Whilst enquiries continue it is believed a car mounted the pavement and collided with a number of pedestrians."

It said the arrested man was among nine people taken to hospital, while two others were treated at the scene. He is currently in custody at a London police station.

No one is believed to have life-threatening or life-changing injuries.

The area, which includes the wide, semi-pedestrianised Exhibition Road which runs past the Science Museum and the Victoria & Albert Museum, is popular with families and tourists, particularly on a Saturday afternoon.

Footage and photographs posted on Twitter showed the detained man next to a black car with its door open and its bonnet severely damaged.

Witnesses reported by some media said they had heard a loud bang. An AFP reporter said crowds in the area had fled screaming in panic.

Armed police were deployed to the scene and the whole area was cordoned off.

Security is high in Britain after five terror attacks since March -- four of them in London and one in Manchester -- with the bloodshed claiming 35 lives.

Three of the attacks in London involved the use of a vehicle to plough into pedestrians.

Prime Minister Theresa May offered her thanks to the emergency services, adding: "My thoughts are with the injured."

London's Metropolitan Police said they were called to the scene at 2:21 pm (1321 GMT) after reports of a collision.

One witness, identified only as Katy, told LBC London radio she had seen two people injured, including a young boy whose leg was hurt and a woman.

Another who gave his name only as Leonard, told AFP: "I was near South Ken station and there were many police.

"Suddenly a police woman officer shouted at the crowd to run, and everybody flew in panic, many people screaming."

A spokesman for the Natural History Museum told AFP: "I can confirm that there has been a vehicle collision with pedestrians on our Exhibition Road entrance."

Not far away, tens of thousands of football fans took part in a silent protest "against extremism", walking from Park Lane past Downing Street and to parliament.

The Football Lads Alliance was formed after the London Bridge attack in June and brought together supporters of rival teams with military veterans.

Ahead of the march, founder John Meighan said the group wished to "show our concern at the recent upsurge in terror attacks taking place across the UK and Europe".Several people have been injured after a car reportedly ploughed into people outside London's Natural History Museum.

Scotland Yard said that "a number of pedestrians have been injured" in an incident in Exhibition Road in South Kensington shortly after 2.20pm.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "Officers are on scene, and the London Ambulance Service have been called.

Three arrested after pursuit of a stolen vehicle

"A man has been arrested at the scene."

Pictures and footage from the scene showed street damage and a massive police presence in the capital's museum district, home to the NHM, the Science Museum and the Victoria and Albert Museum.

The area is a magnet for tourists, including lots of children.

Afra Wang posted a picture of emergency services on Twitter, writing: "A crime scene? Full armed police locked the whole area out outside of @V_and_A in London. The helicopter above us doesn't seem to leave."

Video footage on Twitter showed a man being restrained on the ground in the middle of Exhibition Road.

None of the four people around him are in uniform.

Behind them is a black Toyota car with its driver's door open, which appears to have collided with a silver Vauxhall saloon.

The Natural History Museum tweeted: "There's been a serious incident outside the Museum. We are working w/ @metpoliceuk and will provide an update when we have more information."LONDON  British emergency services raced to Londons Natural History Museum after a car struck pedestrians Saturday outside the building. Police said a number of people were injured and one person was detained at the scene.

The crash happened at 2:20 p.m. on a day when the central London museum is usually teeming with pedestrians, including international tourists.

Photographs showed a dented silver car and a man being pinned to the ground outside the museum. Witness Katie Craine said she was coming out of the museum when she saw a man in handcuffs pinned down by police near a damaged car.

He looked really proud of himself, she said. He was laughing.

British officials, however, have not classified the incident as a terrorist act.

From what weve seen in the methodology of other attacks I wouldnt rule it out, but we just dont have enough information on the ground to determine that at this point, said a British security official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the investigation.

The London Ambulance Service was tending to the injured. There was no immediate statement on the number or severity of the injuries.

Shopkeepers in the immediate area were told to evacuate and police established a large security cordon around the area minutes after the incident, closing some roads. Police helicopters circled the scene overhead.

Police said they are working to establish the circumstances of the crash and more information will be provided once details are clear.

The Natural History Museum tweeted that there had been a serious incident outside the museum, which is located near the world famous Victoria and Albert Museum and other attractions.

Downing Street said British Prime Minister Theresa May was being briefed on the incident.

Londons official terrorist threat level has been set at severe, indicating an attack is highly likely.

There have been a series of terror attacks on London and Manchester this year, including vehicle attacks on pedestrians at Westminster Bridge and London Bridge.SEVERAL people are injured and a taxi driver has been detained after a car rammed into crowds outside London's Natural History Museum.

The incident happened around 2.20pm London time (12:20am AEDT) in Exhibition Rd, South Kensington.

A senior government security source reportedly said the driver of the car blacked out, Tim Shipman, The Sunday Times political editor said on Twitter.

The man pictured being restrained on the ground is understood to be the driver of the smashed-up Toyota.



 The Metropolitan Police have just confirmed the incident was not a terror attack, but an accident.

"The incident at Exhibition Road is not being treated as terror-related,'' they tweeted, almost four hours after the incident. "It is a road traffic collision.''

The London Ambulance Service said they treated 11 people, including nine who were taken to hospital.

Most had received head and leg injuries.

Hundreds of terrified tourists fled the scene as the black Toyota Prius - a registered minicab - careered into a sign before ultimately crashing into a crowd of as many as 10 people as it hit a silver car.

Witnesses said a blood-soaked man was pinned to the ground and was "laughing" as he was detained.

Roxanne Dervliet, from Bristol, was yards away when she saw police bundle on top of a man on the ground.

She told Sun Online: "We'd just walked past the museum and saw what looked like a car crashed into a building.

"There were 100-odd people running away.

 

 "Police were directing people out of the way and I think one person started running and it set everyone off.

"I was shaking, my friend was crying.

"My first thought was that it was terror-related.

"My mum was calling me and telling me I shouldn't have come to London for my birthday.

"I went into Starbucks opposite to get out of the way.

"Everyone is very confused about what is going on. We're all shook up."

One American tourist, who did not wished to be named, was with his girlfriend in the KFC restaurant just yards from the smash.

He told Sun Online: "We were sitting down and suddenly saw a huge stampede of people. Some police came in and told us to get on the floor.

"Then they told us to get in the basement.

"They were pushing everyone forward and telling them to run."

 

 The Metropolitan Police said a number of pedestrians had been injured in a "collision''.

"Officers are on scene and the London Ambulance Service have been called,'' the Met tweeted.

"A manhas been detained at the scene.

"Enquiries to establish the circumstances and motive are underway.''

The Natural History Museum, a few blocks away from Hyde Park, is popular with locals and tourists alike and the area was busy with pedestrians braving a chilly autumn day in London.

The museum is one of London's most popular attractions and brought in more than 4.6 million visitors in 2016.

Nearby museums including the Science Museum and Victoria and Albert Museum were evacuated with Tube stations sealed off by police.

 

 Twitter users said the car had mounted the footpath and rammed into the crowds, resulting in several people being injured.

Nearby Cromwell Road, a major thoroughfare, was shut down by police, causing heavy traffic congestion in parts of central London.

 

 The Natural History Museum tweeted there had been a "serious incident outside the Museum.''

"We are working with (the Met police) and will provide an update when we have more information.''

Downing Street said British Prime Minister Theresa May was being briefed on the incident.

 

 London's official terrorist threat level has been set at "severe," indicating an attack is highly likely.

London has seen three fatal terror attacks this year where a vehicle was used to mow people down - at Westminster Bridge, London Bridge and outside a mosque in Finsbury Park.LONDON  A car crash that injured 11 people outside a major London tourist attraction Saturday sparked fears of a terrorist attack but turned out to be simply a traffic accident, London police said.

The accident at 2:20 p.m. outside the popular Natural History Museum in the heart of central London brought a gigantic police response, including helicopters and hazardous area response teams, because of terrorist concerns.

Police said 11 people were injured when a car apparently mounted the pavement and hit pedestrians. Nine people were hospitalized with head and leg injuries that were not judged to be life-changing.

Panicky scenes ensued after the pedestrians were struck and it took nearly four hours for police to reassure the anxious public that it was not another terrorist attack.

Britons in general, and Londoners in particular, have been jumpy after a string of extremist attacks this year, including deadly attacks using vehicles to hit pedestrians on Westminster Bridge and London Bridge. Britain has been on a severe terrorist threat level indicating that the Joint Terrorism Analysis Center believes an attack is viewed as highly likely.

Police said one man at the scene, thought to be the driver, was detained. He has not been charged or identified.

Witnesses described a rush to leave the scene, nearby shops were evacuated and the sprawling museum, a favorite site for families with children, closed down early. Police established a large security cordon around the area within minutes.

Workers in a cafe near the Natural History Museum say they fled the scene in fear.

Marilin Mueller, 20, said she thought at first it was a traffic accident but had doubts when loads of police cars arrived.

All of these police came marching down saying, Move, move. They said, you need to evacuate,' she said.

Dieon Rurora said people were running down the street to get away and some fell.

It was quite scary, he said.

One woman draped in a red blanket was led away by a paramedic after the crash. Others were seen leaving with their legs bandaged.

The crash took place on a day when the central London museum district was teeming with pedestrians. Photographs showed a dented silver car and a man being pinned to the ground outside the museum. A police forensics officer in blue coveralls took pictures of the crash site.

London Mayor Sadiq Khan tweeted that he was in close contact with Assistant Metropolitan Police Commissioner Mark Rowley, who plays a lead role in the polices counter-terrorism operation.

The Natural History Museum closed after the crash but its neighbor, the famed Victoria and Albert Museum, remained open.

British Prime Minister Theresa May thanked the first responders and the public for their help and said her thoughts were with the injured.Police arrested a man near London's Natural History Museum on yesterday after a vehicle apparently drove into pedestrians, injuring a number of people.

Crowds in the busy tourist spot in South Kensington, which is also home to the Victoria & Albert Museum and the Science Museum, fled screaming in panic, an AFP reporter said.

Armed police were at the scene, and a video posted on Twitter showed a man being held down on the road next to a black car that appeared to have crashed.

London police said the incident was not being treated as terrorism-related at this stage.

Security is high in Britain after five terror attacks in six months -- four of them in London and one in Manchester -- with the bloodshed claiming 35 lives.Police arrested a man near London's Natural History Museum on Saturday after his vehicle mounted the pavement and ploughed into pedestrians, injuring himself and 10 others in an apparent road traffic collision unrelated to terrorism.

Witnesses and footage posted on social media suggested the man was pinned down on the ground by passers-by in the busy tourist spot.

"The incident is a road traffic investigation and not a terrorist-related incident," London's Metropolitan Police said in a statement.

"Whilst enquiries continue it is believed a car mounted the pavement and collided with a number of pedestrians."

It said the arrested man was among nine people taken to hospital, while two others were treated at the scene. He is currently in custody at a London police station.

No one is believed to have life-threatening or life-changing injuries.

The area, which includes the wide, semi-pedestrianised Exhibition Road which runs past the Science Museum and the Victoria & Albert Museum, is popular with families and tourists, particularly on a Saturday afternoon.

Footage and photographs posted on Twitter showed the detained man next to a black car with its door open and its bonnet severely damaged.

Witnesses reported by some media said they had heard a loud bang. An AFP reporter said crowds in the area had fled screaming in panic.

Armed police were deployed to the scene and the whole area was cordoned off.

Security is high in Britain after five terror attacks since March -- four of them in London and one in Manchester -- with the bloodshed claiming 35 lives.

Three of the attacks in London involved the use of a vehicle to plough into pedestrians.

Prime Minister Theresa May offered her thanks to the emergency services, adding: "My thoughts are with the injured."

London's Metropolitan Police said they were called to the scene at 2:21 pm (1321 GMT) after reports of a collision.

One witness, identified only as Katy, told LBC London radio she had seen two people injured, including a young boy whose leg was hurt and a woman.

Another who gave his name only as Leonard, told AFP: "I was near South Ken station and there were many police.

"Suddenly a police woman officer shouted at the crowd to run, and everybody flew in panic, many people screaming."

A spokesman for the Natural History Museum told AFP: "I can confirm that there has been a vehicle collision with pedestrians on our Exhibition Road entrance."

Not far away, tens of thousands of football fans took part in a silent protest "against extremism", walking from Park Lane past Downing Street and to parliament.

The Football Lads Alliance was formed after the London Bridge attack in June and brought together supporters of rival teams with military veterans.

Ahead of the march, founder John Meighan said the group wished to "show our concern at the recent upsurge in terror attacks taking place across the UK and Europe".To use this website, cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies, follow the instructions for your browser below.

There is a specific issue with the Facebook in-app browser intermittently making requests to websites without cookies that had previously been set. This appears to be a defect in the browser which should be addressed soon. The simplest approach to avoid this problem is to continue to use the Facebook app but not use the in-app browser. This can be done through the following steps:

Open the settings menu by clicking the hamburger menu in the top right Turn on the option Links Open Externally (This will use the devices default browser)